---

copyright:

  years:  2016, 2018

lastupdated: "2018-01-18"

---

# Viewing NetApp ONTAP Select instances

Use this procedure to view the NetApp ONTAP Select instances that you ordered and detailed information about them.

## Procedure

1. Click **Deployed Instances** from the left navigation pane. In the **NetApp ONTAP Select Instances** table, view the summary about the ordered instances:

  * **Name**: The name of the instance.
  * **ESXi Servers**: The sum of the ESXi servers associated with the instance.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Creation Time**: The date and time that the instance was created.
  * **Status**: The status of the instance. The status can have one of the following values:
     <dl class="dl">
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Creating</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being created.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Building</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being configured.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Ready to Use</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is ready to use.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Modifying </dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being modified.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Failed</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The creation, configuration, or modification process failed.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleting</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being deleted.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deletion Error</dt>
     <dd class="dd">An error occurred when the instance was being deleted.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleted</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is deleted.</dd>
     </dl>
  * **Actions**: Take the following actions on the instance:
    <dl class="dl">
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Delete</dt>
    <dd class="dd">Delete the instance.</dd>
    </dl>

2. Click an instance to see its general details. Ensure that you are on the **Summary** tab.

  * **ID**: The ID of the instance.
  * **Name**: The name of the instance.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Current version**: The current version of {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_full}}.
  * **vCenter version**: The version of VMware vCenter Server.

    **Note**: There is a slight variation between the vCenter Server version displayed on the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console and the VMware vSphere Web Client. Both are correct.

  * **NSX for vSphere**: The VMware NSX for vSphere product version.
  * **NSX license edition**: The version and edition of the VMware NSX license.
  * **NetApp version**: The version of NetApp ONTAP Select.
  * **NetApp license type**: The type of the NetApp ONTAP Select license.
  * **DNS**, **Root Domain**: The root domain name is the DNS (Domain Name System) domain name and the Microsoft Active Directory (AD) forest root name for the instance.
  * **DNS**, **SSO Domain**: The SSO domain is the vSphere Single Sign-On domain. The SSO domain name is set for all deployed NetApp ONTAP Select instances with a value of `vsphere.local`.
  * **DNS**, **Subdomain**: The subdomain is the DNS subdomain name of the root domain name where the local NetApp ONTAP
  Select instance host names reside. The subdomain name is in the format `<subdomain_label>.<root_domain>`.
  * **Status**: The status of the instance.

3. View the access information for the instance-related components. These passwords are initial passwords that are generated by the system. If you change them outside of the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console, they are not updated on the instance details page.

  * **vCenter IP**: The IP address of the vCenter Server.
  * **vCenter FQDN**: The vCenter Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **vCenter ADMIN**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to log in to the vCenter Server by using the vSphere Web Client.
  * **vCenter SSH**: The user name and password that you can use to access the vCenter Server VM via SSH connection.
  * **PSC IP**: The IP address of the Platform Services Controller (PSC).
  * **PSC FQDN**: The PSC fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **PSC ADMIN**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to access the PSC web console.
  * **PSC SSH**: The user name and password that you can use to access the PSC VM via SSH connection.
  * **NSX Manager IP**: The IP address of the NSX Manager.
  * **NSX Manager HTTP**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NSX Manager web console.  
  * **NetApp Cluster IP**: The IP address of the NetApp ONTAP Select cluster.
  * **NetApp Cluster HTTPS**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NetApp ONTAP Select cluster.
  * **NetApp Deploy Tool IP**: The IP address of the NetApp ONTAP Select Deploy virtual machine.
  * **NetApp Deploy Tool HTTPS**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NetApp ONTAP Select Deploy virtual machine.
  * **AD/DNS IP**: The IP address of the AD server.
  * **AD/DNS FQDN**: The AD/DNS server fully qualified domain name.
  * **AD/DNS ADMIN (Remote Desktop)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the AD server via a remote desktop connection.

4. View the deployment history for the instance.

  * **Date**: The date and time when the instance status is changed.
  * **Summary**: The details of the change.

    If errors occur during instance deployment or instance deletion, an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Support ticket is created automatically on your behalf. You can click the ticket link to check its status and progress.

5. Click the **Infrastructure** tab to view the summary about the NetApp ONTAP Select cluster.
  * **Name**: The name of the cluster.
  * **ESXi servers**: The number of ESXi servers in the cluster.
  * **CPU**: The CPU specification of the ESXi servers in the cluster.
  * **Disk**: The total disk capacity of the ESXi servers in the cluster.
  * **Memory**: The total memory size of the ESXi servers in the cluster.
  * **Data center location**: The data center where the cluster is hosted. It is same with the data center location of the instance.
  * **Pod**: The pod in which the cluster is created.
  * **Status**: The status of the cluster. The status can have one of the following values:
     <dl class="dl">
         <dt class="dt dlterm">Initializing</dt>
         <dd class="dd">The cluster is being created and configured.</dd>
         <dt class="dt dlterm">Modifying</dt>
         <dd class="dd">The cluster is being modified.</dd>
         <dt class="dt dlterm">Ready to Use</dt>
         <dd class="dd">The cluster is ready to use.</dd>
     </dl>

6. Click the cluster name to view its ESXi server details.
     * **Name**: The name of the ESXi server is in the format `<host_prefix><n>.<subdomain_label>.<root_domain>`, where:

       `host_prefix` is the host name prefix,
       `n` is the sequence of the server,
       `subdomain_label` is the subdomain label, and
       `root_domain` is the root domain name.

     * **Version**: The version of the ESXi server.
     * **Credentials**: The user name and password to access the ESXi server.
     * **Private IP**: The private IP address of the ESXi server.
     * **Status**: The status of the ESXi server, which can be one of the following values:
        <dl class="dl">
        <dt class="dt dlterm">Active</dt>
        <dd class="dd">The ESXi server is ready for use. </dd>
        <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleting</dt>
        <dd class="dd">The ESXi server is being deleted.</dd>
        </dl>

## What to do next

Manage your instances from the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console, the VMware vSphere Web Client, or the NetApp console.

**Important**: Before you click **vCenter console** on the instance details page to go to the vSphere Web Client and start managing your ESXi servers, you must log in to the VPN portal of the {{site.data.keyword.CloudDataCent}}. Hover over the **vCenter console** button and follow the instructions to ensure that you meet all requirements and you completed the necessary steps before you access the vSphere Web Client.

Review the following topics for information to help you complete the login instructions:

*  For the requirements and necessary steps before you access the vSphere Web Client, see [Timeout reached while connecting to the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_timeout_vc_console.html).
*  For a list of access points to log in to the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} infrastructure Private Network using VPN, see [VPN Access](http://www.softlayer.com/vpn-access){:new_window}.
*  If you have problems when you deploy an OVF (Open Virtualization Format) file using the vSphere Web Client, see [Deploying an OVF file using the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_deploy_ovf.html).

## Related links

* [Ordering NetApp ONTAP Select instances](np_orderinginstances.html)
* [Deleting NetApp ONTAP Select instances](np_deletinginstance.html)
* [Attach dedicated storage to NetApp ONTAP Select deployments](https://developer.ibm.com/recipes/tutorials/steps-to-attach-dedicated-storage-to-existing-ic4v-deployments-on-ibm-cloud/)
