---

copyright:

  years:  2016, 2017

lastupdated: "2017-06-30"

---

# Viewing Cloud Foundation instances

Use this procedure to view the VMware Cloud Foundation instances that you ordered and detailed information about them.

## Procedure

1. Click **Deployed Instances** from the left navigation pane. Ensure that you are on the **Cloud Foundation** tab. View the summary about the ordered instances:

  * **Name**:The name of the instance.
  * **ESXi servers**: The number of ESXi servers.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Status**: The status of the instance. The status can have one of the following values:
    <dl class="dl">
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Creating</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is being created.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Building</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is being configured.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Ready to Use</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is ready to use.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Modifying </dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is being modified.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Updating</dt>
    <dd class="dd">Updates and patches are being applied to the instance.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Failed</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The creation, configuration, or modification process failed.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleting</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is being deleted.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Deletion Error</dt>
    <dd class="dd">An error occurred when the instance was being deleted.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleted</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The instance is deleted.</dd>
    </dl>
  * **Actions**: The actions that you can take on the instance. The available action is to delete the instance.

2. Click an instance to see its general details. Ensure that you are on the **Summary** tab.

  * **ID**: The ID of the instance.
  * **Name**: The name of the instance.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Current version**: The current version of {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_full}}.
  * **vCenter version**: The version of VMware vCenter Server.

    **Note**: There is a slight variation between the vCenter Server version displayed on the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console and the VMware vSphere Web Client. Both are correct.

  * **NSX for vSphere**: The VMware NSX for vSphere product version.
  * **NSX license edition**: The version and edition of the VMware NSX license.
  * **DNS**:
    <dl class="dl">
           <dt class="dt dlterm">Root Domain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The root domain name is the DNS (Domain Name System) domain name and the Active Directory (AD) forest root name for a
    primary (single) or secondary set of <span class="ph">Cloud Foundation instances</span>.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">SSO Domain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The SSO domain is the vSphere Single Sign-On domain. The SSO domain name is fixed for all deployed  <span
    class="ph">Cloud Foundation instances</span> (primary or secondary) with a value of <samp class="ph codeph">vsphere.local</samp>.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Subdomain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The subdomain is the DNS subdomain name of the root domain name where the local <span class="ph">Cloud Foundation
    instance</span> host names reside. The subdomain name is in the format <samp class="ph codeph"><var class="keyword
    varname">cloud_foundation_instance_name</var>.<var class="keyword varname">root.domain_name</var></samp>.</dd>
    </dl>
  * **ESXi server CPU**: The CPU specification of the ESXi servers.
  * **ESXi server memory**: The memory size of the ESXi servers.
  * **Status**: The detailed status of the instance.

    The information that is displayed provides an update on the progress of the deployment or the action that is taken on the instance.
    If there are issues, a message might be displayed to help you investigate and resolve the problem.

3. View the access information for the instance-related components. These passwords are initial passwords that are generated by the system. If you change them outside of the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console, they are not updated on the instance details page.

  * **vCenter IP**: The IP address of the vCenter Server.
  * **vCenter FQDN**: The vCenter Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **vCenter (SSH)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the vCenter Server VM via SSH connection.
  * **vCenter (ADMIN)**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to log in to the vCenter Server by
  using the vSphere Web Client.
  * **NSX Manager IP**: The IP address of the NSX Manager.
  * **NSX Manager FQDN**: The NSX Manager fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **NSX Manager (HTTP)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NSX Manager web console.
  * **NSX Manager (SSH)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NSX Manager VM via SSH connection.
  * **PSC IP**: The IP address of the Platform Services Controller (PSC).
  * **PSC FQDN**: The PSC fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **PSC (SSH)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the PSC VM via SSH connection.
  * **PSC (ADMIN)**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to access the PSC web console.
  * **AD/DNS server IP**: The IP address of the Windows Active Directory (AD) server.
  * **AD/DNS server FQDN**: The AD/DNS server fully qualified domain name.
  * **AD/DNS server (Remote desktop)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the AD server via a remote desktop connection.

4. View the deployment history for the instance.

  * **Date**: The date and time when the instance status is changed.
  * **Summary**: The details of the change.

    If errors occur during instance deployment or instance deletion, a SoftLayer service ticket is sent automatically to IBM Support on
    your behalf. You can click the ticket link to check its status and progress.

## What to do next

Manage your instances from the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console or the vSphere Web Client.

**Important**: Before you click **vCenter console** on the instance details page to go to the vSphere Web Client and start managing your ESXi servers, you must log in to the VPN portal of the IBM Cloud data center. Hover over the vCenter console button and follow the instructions to ensure that you meet all requirements and completed the necessary steps before you access the vSphere Web Client. 

Review the following topics for information to help you complete the login instructions:

* For the requirements and necessary steps before you access the vSphere Web Client, see [Timeout reached while connecting to the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_timeout_vc_console.html).
* For a list of access points to log in to the SoftLayer Private Network using VPN, see [VPN Access](http://www.softlayer.com/vpn-access){:new_window}.
* If you have problems when you deploy an OVF (Open Virtualization Format) file using the vSphere Web Client, see [Deploying an OVF file using the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_deploy_ovf.html).

## Related links

* [Ordering Cloud Foundation instances](sd_orderinginstance.html)
* [Expanding and contracting capacity for Cloud Foundation instances](sd_addingremovingservers.html)
* [Deleting Cloud Foundation instances](sd_deletinginstance.html)
