---

copyright:

  years:  2016, 2017

lastupdated: "2017-10-11"

---

# Viewing vCenter Server instances

Use this procedure to view the VMware vCenter Server instances that you ordered and detailed information about them.

## Procedure

1. Click **Deployed Instances** from the left navigation pane. In the **vCenter Server Instances** table, view the summary about the ordered instances:

  * **Name**: The name of the instance.
  * **ESXi Servers**: The sum of the ESXi servers initially associated with the instance and the ESXi servers of the added clusters in the instance.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Creation Time**: The date and time that the instance was created.
  * **Status**: The status of the instance. The status can have one of the following values:
     <dl class="dl">
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Creating</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being created.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Building</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being configured.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Ready to Use</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is ready to use.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Modifying </dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being modified.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Failed</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The creation, configuration, or modification process failed.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleting</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is being deleted.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deletion Error</dt>
     <dd class="dd">An error occurred when the instance was being deleted.</dd>
     <dt class="dt dlterm">Deleted</dt>
     <dd class="dd">The instance is deleted.</dd>
     </dl>
  * **Actions**: Take the following actions on the instance:
    <dl class="dl">
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Delete</dt>
    <dd class="dd">Delete the instance.</dd>
    </dl>

2. Click an instance to see the property details. Ensure that you are on the **Summary** tab.

  * **ID**: The ID of the instance.
  * **Name**: The name of the instance.
  * **Location**: The data center where the instance is hosted.
  * **Current version**: The current version of {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}}.
  * **vCenter version**: The version of VMware vCenter Server.

    **Note**: There is a slight variation between the vCenter Server version displayed on the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console and the VMware vSphere Web Client. Both are correct.

  * **NSX for vSphere**: The VMware NSX for vSphere product version.
  * **NSX license edition**: The version and edition of the VMware NSX license.
  * **DNS**:
    <dl class="dl">
           <dt class="dt dlterm">Root Domain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The root domain name is the DNS (Domain Name System) domain name and the Microsoft Active Directory (AD) forest root name.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">SSO Domain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The SSO domain is the vSphere Single Sign-On domain. The SSO domain name is fixed for all deployed vCenter Server instances with a value of <samp class="ph codeph">vsphere.local</samp>.</dd>
    <dt class="dt dlterm">Subdomain</dt>
    <dd class="dd">The subdomain is the DNS subdomain name of the root domain name where the local vCenter Server instance host names reside. The subdomain name is in the format <samp class="ph codeph"><var class="keyword varname">vcenter_server_instance_name</var>.<var class="keyword varname">root.domain_name</var></samp>.</dd>
    </dl>
  * **Status**: The status of the instance.

3. View the access information for the instance-related components. These passwords are initial passwords that are generated by the system. If you change them outside window of the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_full}} console, they are not updated on the instance details page.

  * **vCenter IP**: The IP address of the vCenter Server.
  * **vCenter FQDN**: The vCenter Server fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **vCenter (ADMIN)**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to log in to the vCenter Server by using the vSphere Web Client.
  * **vCenter (SSH)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the vCenter Server VM via SSH connection.
  * **PSC IP**: The IP address of the Platform Services Controller (PSC).
  * **PSC FQDN**: The PSC fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
  * **PSC (ADMIN)**: The VMware vCenter Single Sign-On user name and password that you can use to access the PSC web console.
  * **PSC (SSH)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the PSC VM via SSH connection.
  * **NSX Manager IP**: The IP address of the NSX Manager.
  * **NSX Manager (HTTP)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the NSX Manager web console.
  * **AD/DNS IP**: The IP address of the AD server.
  * **AD/DNS FQDN**: The AD/DNS server fully qualified domain name.
  * **AD/DNS (Remote Desktop)**: The user name and password that you can use to access the AD server via a remote desktop connection.

4. View the deployment history for the instance.

  * **Date**: The date and time when the instance status is changed.
  * **Summary**: The details of the change.

    If errors occur during instance deployment or instance deletion, a Bluemix Support ticket is created automatically on your behalf. You can click the ticket link to check its status and progress.

## What to do next

Manage your instances from the {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}} console or the VMware vSphere Web Client.

**Important**: Before you click **vCenter console** on the instance details page to go to the vSphere Web Client and start managing
your ESXi servers, you must log in to the VPN portal of the IBM Cloud data center. Hover over the **vCenter console** button and
follow the instructions to ensure that you meet all requirements and you completed the necessary steps before you access the vSphere
Web Client.

Review the following topics for information to help you complete the login instructions:

*  For the requirements and necessary steps before you access the vSphere Web Client, see [Timeout reached while connecting to
   the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_timeout_vc_console.html).
*  For a list of access points to log in to the IBM Bluemix Infrastructure (SoftLayer) Private Network using VPN, see [VPN Access](http://www.softlayer.com/vpn-access){:new_window}.
*  If you have problems when you deploy an OVF (Open Virtualization Format) file using the vSphere Web Client, see [Deploying an OVF file using the vSphere Web Client](../vmonic/trbl_deploy_ovf.html).

## Related links

* [Ordering vCenter Server instances](vc_orderinginstance.html)
* [Adding and viewing clusters for vCenter Server instances](vc_addingviewingclusters.html)
* [Expanding and contracting capacity for vCenter Server instances](vc_addingremovingservers.html)
* [Deleting vCenter Server instances](vc_deletinginstance.html)
