---

copyright:

  years:  2019, 2021

lastupdated: "2021-10-21"

subcollection: vmwaresolutions


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Use case definitions and desktop assessments
{: #horizon-use-cases}

A successful VMware® Horizon 7 deployment requires a thorough understanding of the users and applications that are onboarded into the service. Without a good understanding of these items, the resources that are provided to the users are not sized correctly, leading to a bad user experience that hurts adoption of the service.

Use case definitions are detailed information about the users that are onboarded into the service, including their expected work patterns. For example, information about the business unit they are a part of, the applications that they use, the hours that they are expected to use the service, where they access the service from. Use case definitions help drive the service design and ensure that all business and user requirements are met.

Desktop assessments provide two functions for the design of a Horizon 7 service: they validate the use case definitions and they complete any gaps that might exist in those definitions. They also provide performance metrics around the desktops. These metrics are used to size the environment so that enough CPU, RAM, and storage exist.

A desktop assessment requires a tool like Liquidware Stratusphere™ or Lakeside® Systrack to collect data from endpoints. Run the tool for at least 30 days to gather enough information so you can understand the performance trends for the environment.  

## Estimating data egress cost
{: #horizon-use-cases-estimate-egress}

Unlike on-premises, deploying Horizon 7 incurs data egress cost based on the amount of data egress traffic that is generated by your environment. It is important to understand and estimate the data egress traffic.

### Understanding different types of data egress traffic
{: #horizon-use-cases-understand-egress-traffic}

Depending on your deployment use case, you might be incurring cost for some or all of the following types of data egress traffic:
* User traffic through the Internet - You configured your environment where your users connect to their virtual desktops on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} remotely through the Internet. Any data that leaves the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data center incurs egress charge. Egress data consists of the following components: outbound data from Horizon 7 protocols and outbound data from remote experience features (for example, remote printing). While the former is typically predicable, the latter has more variance and depends on the exact activity of the user.
* User traffic through on-premises - You configured your environment where your users connect to their virtual desktops on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} through your on-premises data center. In this case, you must link your data center with the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data center by using VPN. Any data traffic that leaves the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data center back to your data center incurs egress charge. If you configured Cloud Pod Architecture (CPA) between the on-premises environment and {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you incur egress charge for any CPA traffic between the two pods (although CPA traffic is typically fairly light).
* External application traffic - You configured your environment where your virtual desktops on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} must access applications that are hosted either in your on-premises environment or in another cloud. Any data traffic that leaves the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data center to these other data centers incurs egress charge.

Data ingress is data that flows into the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data center and data between {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data centers. This data is free of charge.

### Estimating Data Egress Traffic with SysTrack from Lakeside
{: #horizon-use-cases-estimate-data-egress}

The data egress cost is priced per GB. You can estimate data egress cost by estimating your likely data egress traffic. Whether your environment is virtualized or not, you can use a monitoring tool in your existing on-premises environment. Ensure that you estimate the different types of data egress traffic separately, if applicable. You can use a monitoring tool such as SysTrack from Lakeside Software.

[Lakeside SysTrack](https://www.lakesidesoftware.com/product){: external} workplace analytics solution contains an extensive set of tools to provide relevant planning information for [desktop transformation](https://www.lakesidesoftware.com/solutions/desktop-transformation){: external}. For more information about the SysTrack Desktop Assessment (SDA), see the [SysTrack Desktop Assessment (SDA) - solution brief](https://www.vmware.com/content/dam/digitalmarketing/vmware/en/pdf/solutionbrief/microsites/latitude/docs/solution-brief.pdf){: external}. Through the SDA, customers can collect detailed environmental information, including recommendations for deployment options and resource requirements, with only the need to deploy the SysTrack agent to systems that are considered for transformation. For advanced cases, the on-premises version of SysTrack can be used as well. This information assumes that such a deployment is already in place.

After SysTrack is deployed in the environment, it starts to collect relevant information from devices on which it is installed.

The following information is the most interesting data that is collected for the network:
* Per Device Network Usage
* Per Session Protocol Bandwidth Usage
* Per Application (and Destination) Bandwidth Usage

The key is thinking about how best to combine these pieces of information into something that’s useful for planning costs. Because the ingress data is free for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, let's focus on the egress data as observed from the devices in the collection. That takes the form of “transmitted” data from that device to other destinations, and you’ll see more details as we go into the following method.

With SysTrack, you can use two different styles of calculation based on the level of detail you’d like to see. Several dashboards are available to view this information in SysTrack.

All numbers in the dashboards are measured in bits, not bytes.
{: note}

### Basic network egress bandwidth calculation
{: #horizon-use-cases-basic-egress}

The Horizon Sizing Tool dashboard provides some basic numbers to help you plan your migration to the VMware® cloud. The following table breaks users down into categories based on egress bandwidth consumption. Resource consumption metrics are supplied for each category. Egress bandwidth consumption for applications and the ICA, Blast, and PCoIP remote display protocols are available.

The resource consumption metrics can be fed into some of VMware’s sizing tools such as the [Horizon sizing tool](https://code.vmware.com/article-detail/-/asset_publisher/8n011DnrSCHt/content/horizon-sizing-tool-intro){: external} (Requires VMware Partner Central account). These tools provide guidance on how to plan for the number and size of systems you are deploying.

### Advanced network egress bandwidth calculation
{: #horizon-use-cases-advanced-egress}

The Advanced Horizon Sizing Tool offers advanced sizing calculations, which can be used to estimate costs around migrating to the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} pricing is based around the level of data that is transmitted from the cloud back to the client (that is, egress bandwidth consumption).

Within the dashboard, each user is put into a category based on egress bandwidth consumption. The category can be based on SysTrack data if you are migrating from an existing virtual environment or estimated if you are migrating from a physical environment.

You can select the protocol that you want to use to estimate values for users on physical machines, and the type of egress data displayed – protocol, application, or a combination of both.

A summary table shows these categories and the total and average for egress bandwidth consumption. This same data is also presented in graph form for a more visual presentation:

You can also see more details on a per user basis based on the category that is selected in the summary table. The Selected Category Users table shows total and average bandwidth consumption and the calculation type, which indicates which data source was used to generate the consumption values.

The following examples show how to determine monthly egress bandwidth per VM in gigabytes.

If you want to calculate the egress bandwidth for an average VM, you can take the “Total TB 30 Days” and “Users” values in the advanced dashboard summary table and perform the following calculation:

`Monthly GB egress bandwidth per VM = (([Total TB 30 Days]/8) * 1024) / [Users]`

If the "Total TB 30 Days" value is 9.67 and the number of users is 92, the calculation becomes:

`Monthly GB egress bandwidth per VM = ((9.67/8) * 1024) / 92 = 13.5 GB`
