---

copyright:

  years:  2022, 2024

lastupdated: "2024-06-04"

subcollection: vmwaresolutions


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} optional services considerations
{: #v2t-optionalservices}

It is important to understand that any add-on services that you are using in your VMware NSX-V environment are related to that instance. These services are deleted when the NSX-V environment is deprovisioned.

The following list provides the services that you might currently use:

* [Caveonix RiskForesight](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-caveonix_considerations)
* [F5 BIG-IP](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-f5_considerations)
* [VMware HCX](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-hcx_considerations)
* [Juniper vSRX](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-juniper-overview)
* [{{site.data.keyword.redhat_openshift_notm}} for VMware](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-ocp_overview)
* [Veeam](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-veeamvm_overview)
* [VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-vrops_overview)
* [Zerto](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-addingzertodr)

Plan to migrate these services to new services on the VMware NSX-T™ environment.

## Understanding metadata
{: #v2t-optionalservices-metadata}

Optional services can be decoupled from the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V instance and reused with {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V instance. However, it is important to understand the metadata that the service is using from {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}}. 

Review the following information for Advanced Cross vCenter Server vMotion.

* MAC-Address stays the same.
* vCenter's MoRef ID for the VM changes. MoRef ID is a unique ID inside vCenter for every object. A MoRef ID is only unique within a {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}}.
* InstanceUUID stays the same. InstanceUUID is generated by the respective vCenter. However, it is preserved across vMotions that occur within the same SSO domain and across an SSO domain.

## Veeam
{: #v2t-optionalservices-veeam}

It is possible to decouple your Veeam® instance from your {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V instance for reuse with your {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instance. Configuration changes are required to the existing Veeam instance:
* Update instance point to the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} associated with the NSX-T environment
* Update the DNS setting on the Veeam Server, point to the AD/DNS servers.
* Update the default gateway on the Veeam Server, to the HA VIP IP address of the NSX-T Edge, as access public access is required for license activation.
* Update or create a record for the Veeam Server on the AD/DNS Servers that is associated with the new instance.
* Update or create an ID or user on the AD/DNS Servers, which will be used by Veeam to access the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} instance.

You must open a ticket to ask IBM Support to decouple the Veeam server, management subnet, and any associated iSCSI storage from the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V instance so that these components are not deleted when the NSX-V instance is cancelled.
{: important}

If you deploy a new Veeam instance, you must consider backup data and backup configuration to migrate Veeam to the new NSX-T instance.

* Backup data - Backup files will be hosted in the Veeam repository server. For more information, see [Importing Veeam Agent backups](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/archive/agentforwindows/50/userguide/integration_import.html){: external}.
* Backup configuration - The backup configuration can be saved to a file. For more information, see [Configuration backup and restore](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/vbr_config.html?ver=120){: external}.

If you want to migrate your Veeam service from VMware NSX-V to VMware NSX-T, open an IBM Support ticket by following the steps in [Getting help and support](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-trbl_support).
{: note}

## Caveonix RiskForesight
{: #v2t-optionalservices-caveonix}

The primary use case for Caveonix RiskForesight™ is the compliance reporting of the VMware® environment. Therefore, data migration from the NSX-V Caveonix RiskForesight instance to the NSX-T Caveonix RiskForesight instance is not needed.

A secondary use case for Caveonix RiskForesight is the compliance reporting of the workload VMs hosted on the VMware environment. In this case, compliance data for the workload VMs must be migrated to the NSX-T Caveonix RiskForesight instance. You must engage with IBM and Caveonix to plan this migration.

## VMware HCX
{: #v2t-optionalservices-hcx}

HCX™ is not being used for DR services, and so no HCX migration to the NSX-T instance is expected. HCX can be used as a migration tool. In this case, the NSX-T instance must be ordered with HCX.

## Zerto
{: #v2t-optionalservices-zerto}

It is recommended that Zerto is deployed with the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instance and that new site pairing is configured along with the required protection configuration. 

## IBM Spectrum Protect Plus
{: #v2t-optionalservices-spp}

IBM Spectrum® Protect Plus is not currently available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances. Consider the usage of Veeam instead.

## FortiGate Virtual Appliance
{: #v2t-optionalservices-fortigate}

FortiGate® Virtual Appliance is available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances.

* No migration is required for FortiGate Virtual Appliance.
* Capture existing NSX-V FortiGate Virtual Appliance configuration.
* Provision NSX-T {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with FortiGate Virtual Appliance service.
* Configure NSX-T FortiGate Virtual Appliance.
* Cut-over to the NSX-T FortiGate Virtual Appliance at the required point in the migration.

## F5 BIG-IP
{: #v2t-optionalservices-f5}

F5® BIG-IP® is available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances. The migration approach is to configure F5 BIG-IP in the NSX-T environment in parallel to the existing NSX-V configuration to allow testing. After verification, cut-over to NSX-T F5 BIG-IP appliances.

If you want to migrate your F5 BIG-IP service from VMware NSX-V to VMware NSX-T, open an IBM Support ticket by following the steps in [Getting help and support](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-trbl_support).
{: note}

## Juniper vSRX
{: #v2t-optionalservices-vsrx}

Juniper® vSRX is available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances. In the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} NSX-V instance, the Juniper vSRX virtual appliance might be deployed:

* On the consolidated or management cluster - The Juniper vSRX protects the traffic to your workload VMs.
* On the gateway cluster - The Juniper vSRX appliances protects the vSphere hosts and the workload VMs in the same data center PoD.

The migration approach would be to:

* Provision {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T with the required Juniper vSRX service option.
* Capture the NSX-V environment Juniper vSRX appliance configuration information.
* Manually extract the required configuration settings that need to be transferred to the NSX-T environment Juniper vSRX appliances.


## Red Hat OpenShift for VMware
{: #v2t-optionalservices-ocp}

{{site.data.keyword.redhat_openshift_notm}} for VMware for NSX-T is available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances. The migration approach summary is as follows:

* Provision the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instance with {{site.data.keyword.redhat_openshift_notm}} for VMware.
* Configure the new {{site.data.keyword.redhat_openshift_notm}} for VMware cluster as required.
* Create a migration plan, which includes how to handle data from the applications that are being migrated.
* Consider the use of Migration Toolkit for Containers. 

## VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs
{: #v2t-optionalservices-vropsvli}

VMware Aria® Operations™ and VMware Aria Operations™ for Logs is available for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T instances.

The primary use case for VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs is to capture performance, capacity, and logging messages for the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} instance. A secondary use case is to capture performance, capacity, and logging messages for the workload VMs hosted on the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} instance.

The migration approach for the primary use case would be to:

* Provision {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T with the VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs service.
* No performance, capacity, or log messages for the NSX-V instance components need to be retained as the instance will be deleted.
* When the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V is deleted, the VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs service will also be deleted.
* Migrate the content of the {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-V with the VMware Aria Operations and VMware Aria Operations for Logs service to {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} with NSX-T by following the VMware documentation.

## Related links
{: #v2t-optional-services-links}

* [Ordering services for {{site.data.keyword.vcf-auto-short}} instances](/docs/vmwaresolutions?topic=vmwaresolutions-vc_addingservices)
